Update tier1_hortense.rst (#446)
hpcleuven/VscDocumentation: source/gent/tier1_hortense.rst

In 2023 a second phase was added, more than doubling the existing capacity of the system.

> End of 2025, the decommissioning process of cluster Hortense will start (see LINK HERE).

Reviewer: `LINK HERE` should point to what?

Author: I removed the link.
Not worth the time

> This is in anticipation of the 4th VSC Tier-1 cluster that will become available at the VUB datacenter.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is in anticipation of the 4th VSC Tier-1 cluster that will become available at the VUB datacenter from date_ XXX.
```

       - 2x 64-core AMD Epyc 7763 CPU 2.45 GHz ("Milan" microarchitecture, 128 cores per node)
       - 256 GiB RAM (~2GB/core), no swap
       - 480 GB SSD local disk
- ``dodrio/cpu_milan_rhel9``: partition with RHEL9 operating system:
   - 30 workernodes, each with:
       - 2x 64-core AMD Epyc 7763 CPU 2.45 GHz ("Milan" microarchitecture, 128 cores per node)
       - 256 GiB RAM (~2GB/core), no swap
       - 480 GB SSD local disk

>        - Redhat Enterprise Linux 9.0

Reviewer: should be 9.4

Author: fixed

       - 1 NVIDIA V100 (16 GB GPU memory)
       - 256 GiB RAM (~5.2GB/oversubscribed core), no swap
       - 100 GB SSD local disk
- ``dodrio/debug_milan``: interactive and debug partition:
   - 3 workernodes, each with:
       - 32-core AMD Epyc 7513 CPU 2.6 GHz (128 oversubscribed cores as seen by scheduler)
       - 1 shared NVIDIA L4 (24 GB GPU memory)
       - 1 NVIDIA L4 (24 GB GPU memory)
       - 503 GiB RAM (~3.9GB/oversubscribed core), no swap
       - 100 GB SSD local disk
- ``dodrio/debug_milan_rhel9``: interactive and debug partition with RHEL9 operating system:
   - 1 workernode, with:
       - 32-core AMD Epyc 7513 CPU 2.6 GHz (128 oversubscribed cores as seen by scheduler)
       - 1 shared NVIDIA L4 (24 GB GPU memory)
       - 1 NVIDIA L4 (24 GB GPU memory)
       - 503 GiB RAM (~3.9GB/oversubscribed core), no swap
       - 100 GB SSD local disk

>        - Redhat Enterprise Linux 9.0

Author: fixed

.. _hortense_interactive_debug:

Interactive and debug partitions
********************************

A number of (small) interactive and debug partitions are available: `debug_rome`, `debug_milan` and `debug_milan_rhel9`
Purpose of these partitions is to quickly get access to a limited number of resources.

The limitations are a maximum of 5 jobs (running and/or waiting) in queue, only up to 3 running jobs and all running jobs may only allocate
a total of 8 CPU cores combined.

> The CPUs are oversubscribed by a factor 4, which may lead to slower then expected run times when the usage is high.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The CPUs are oversubscribed by a factor 4, which may lead to slower than expected run times when the usage is high.
```

.. _hortense_interactive_debug:

Interactive and debug partitions
********************************

A number of (small) interactive and debug partitions are available: `debug_rome`, `debug_milan` and `debug_milan_rhel9`
Purpose of these partitions is to quickly get access to a limited number of resources.

The limitations are a maximum of 5 jobs (running and/or waiting) in queue, only up to 3 running jobs and all running jobs may only allocate
a total of 8 CPU cores combined.
The CPUs are oversubscribed by a factor 4, which may lead to slower then expected run times when the usage is high.

Technical details of debug/interactive partitions
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Partition `debug_rome` nodes have one NVIDIA V100 GPU that can be requested for exclusive access
(as with the GPU partitions) and also one less powerful GPU (NVIDIA Quadro P1000)
that is always available but shared across all jobs on that node.

Partition `debug_milan` nodes have one NVIDIA L4 GPU that can be requested for exclusive access
(as with the GPU partitions) and also one GPU NVIDIA L4 that is always available but shared across all jobs on that node.

> XXX TODO - what about Partition `debug_milan_rhel9` ? XXX

Reviewer: @epauwels fix or remove

to give you access to all the available resources.

Gradual decommissioning
-----------------------

End 2025, the gradual decommissioning of Tier-1 Compute Hortense will be initiated.
Around this time, the 4th VSC Tier-1 cluster will become available at the VUB datacenter.

The entire Rome partition is end of life November 2025, and will be shut down by end 2025.
This implies that the partitions ``cpu_rome``, ``cpu_rome_all``, ``cpu_rome_512``, ``debug_rome`` will all disappear.

Update to RHEL9 of Milan partition
----------------------------------

> To maintain operational safety, the operating system for the Milan CPU partition will be updated to a significant new version.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To maintain operational safety, the operating system for the Milan CPU partition will be updated to a new major release.
```

Red Hat Enterprise Linux version 9 (going up from 8) will be installed near the end of 2025.
This implies that - end 2025 - your software and/or workflow will need to be compliant with this updated OS.
As of cutoff 2 in 2025, compatibility of your workflow/software with the new RHEL9 operating system will be a hard requirement.

Please test your workflow and software as soon as possible and ensure that you are ready for this transition.

To facilitate testing, we have made two small partitions to run your tests.

* partition ``cpu_milan_rhel9``
* partition ``debug_milan_rhel9``

These partitions are SOLELY intended for testing your software/workflows.
Do not run production jobs on these partitions.

XXX TODO XXX

> - how to load the modules for these partitions

Reviewer: it's the same module swap as any other partition, so in this case `module swap cluser/dodrio/cpu_milan_rhel9` or `module swap cluser/dodrio/debug_milan_rhel9` (or select similar partition from portal)

> - any technical limitations for the _rhel9 partitions?

Reviewer: the number of nodes is less: 1 debug milan el9 node and 30 cpu milan el9 nodes (with same specs as the el8 partitions)

Author: added technical details of the nodes in the top section

to give you access to all the available resources.

Gradual decommissioning
-----------------------

End 2025, the gradual decommissioning of Tier-1 Compute Hortense will be initiated.
Around this time, the 4th VSC Tier-1 cluster will become available at the VUB datacenter.

The entire Rome partition is end of life November 2025, and will be shut down by end 2025.
This implies that the partitions ``cpu_rome``, ``cpu_rome_all``, ``cpu_rome_512``, ``debug_rome`` will all disappear.

> Depending on VSC plans, the ``a100_40`` partition will also likely disappear. But this is currently not confirmed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Depending on VSC plans, the ``a100_40`` partition may also disappear. However, there currently is no confirmation regarding this.
```

Update to RHEL9 of Milan partitions
-----------------------------------

To maintain operational safety, the operating system for the Milan CPU partition will be updated to a new major release.
Red Hat Enterprise Linux version 9 (going up from 8) will be installed near the end of 2025.

> This implies that - end 2025 - your software and/or workflow will need to be compliant with this updated OS.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This implies that - end 2025 - your software and/or workflow will need to be compliant with this OS version.
```

As of cutoff 2 in 2025, compatibility of your workflow/software with the new RHEL9 operating system will be a hard requirement.

Please test your workflow and software as soon as possible and ensure that you are ready for this transition.

> To facilitate testing, we have made two small partitions to run your tests.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To facilitate testing, we have made two small partitions to run tests.
```

- partition ``cpu_milan_rhel9``
- partition ``debug_milan_rhel9``

These partitions are SOLELY intended for testing your software/workflows.
Do not run production jobs on these partitions.

To make use of these partitions you can select the ``dodrio cpu_milan_rhel9`` or ``dodrio debug_milan_rhel9`` options in the `Cluster` field in the

> `Interactive Apps` forms on the webportal, or from the CLI

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`Interactive Apps` forms on the webportal, or from the CLI.
```

to give you access to all the available resources.

Gradual decommissioning
-----------------------

End 2025, the gradual decommissioning of Tier-1 Compute Hortense will be initiated.
Around this time, the 4th VSC Tier-1 cluster will become available at the VUB datacenter.

The entire Rome partition is end of life November 2025, and will be shut down by end 2025.

> This implies that the partitions ``cpu_rome``, ``cpu_rome_all``, ``cpu_rome_512``, ``debug_rome`` will all disappear.

Reviewer: quid the `a100_40`gpu partition? If you are not sure, i would already mention that it might also be removed

Author: Very good suggestion.
Statement made

> Update to RHEL9 of Milan partition

Author: fixed

to give you access to all the available resources.

Gradual decommissioning
-----------------------

End 2025, the gradual decommissioning of Tier-1 Compute Hortense will be initiated.
Around this time, the 4th VSC Tier-1 cluster will become available at the VUB datacenter.

The entire Rome partition is end of life November 2025, and will be shut down by end 2025.
This implies that the partitions ``cpu_rome``, ``cpu_rome_all``, ``cpu_rome_512``, ``debug_rome`` will all disappear.

> Depending on VSC plans, the ``a100_40``partition will also likely disappear. But this is currently not confirmed.

Reviewer: space missing before partition

Author: fixed
